Preface
#######

I was born in Washington, D.C., some time after the Earth had cooled. At the age
of about three, my next door neighbor took me to the Smithsonian Institute
museums on the National Mall where I saw my first airplane:

..	image::	images/wright-flyer.png
	:align: center
	:width: 400

My guide was Andy Tarapchak, a World War II B-26 bomber pilot who survived over
70 missions over France and Germany. He told me countless stories about his
very scary adventures flying during those missions, and explained a lot about
all of the aviation-related displays we saw.

There were all kinds of things on display in the Smithsonian, and we explored
all of them. As I grew up, I got to the point where I could get to the museums
by myself riding the bus. I think I knew every square foot of the public
areas, and quite a few of the non-public areas as well. (Kids are too short to
see those "not allowed past this point" signs!)

Long before I sat in my first classroom I discovered that "stuff" I could see
in the museum was made up of other "stuff" I could not see. The museum displays
showed me what that hidden other "stuff" was and how it made the visible
"stuff" work. What I did not know at the time was that these displays were
turning me into a scientist - someone who wanted to understand how things
worked *inside*. I also did not know how deep I would end up going in my quest
to figure out how things worked in the world we live in!  The hidden stuff was
made up of still deeper more hidden stuff that had to be figured out. Where
does this even end -- or does it?

We have to stop looking deeper and deeper somewhere, or else we will all end up
physicists who cannot stop digging deeper!

A few years later, I was delivering newspapers and rounded a building to see a
man launch a small rubber-powered model airplane. The craft majestically lifted
off of a sidewalk and flew in nice circles all by itself for quite a while
before landing on that same sidewalk almost exactly where it had started. It
was amazing! I had to know how that all happened. My Smithsonian-induced
curiosity told me I needed to understand flight. I was now going to start down
a path that would turn me into an aeronautical engineer. (Not that I had a clue
what that even meant at the time!)

The project you will explore here is part of my quest to understand flight. To
get there, we need to dig deeper into the most fundamental component of our
world that makes flight even possible -- air! Using my favorite tactic for
exploring "stuff" we will dig deeper into air and figure out how it works and
let's us escape the bonds of earth and fly.

Well, at least we will explore the mathematics describing how air works, and
set ourselves up to use a computer to predict how something might fly! 

Welcome to the world of *Computational Fluid Dynamics*.




